okay I got it I got okay and I will and
welcome to the ipfs weekly it is March
216 it's really nice to see all your
faces today we have terminal and they're
gonna tell us how to build and deploy
ipfs hosted apps using terminal and
super excited to have you guys here
would you like to share your screen and
take it away guys
yeah okay did you want to say a couple
words or just kick off you could just
kick it off cool yeah I'll share my
screen okay so hi I'm Brett share on
this teo and co-founder of terminal we
also have Harrison our CEO and Janice
Turner CTO on the call today
so this is the terminal app where I'm
logged in right now into an account I
already have a few sites deployed
terminal in essence is a web development
modern web development tool to deploy
sites and apps onto ipfs so the main
things we've released in this first
version we'll definitely are definitely
around hosting the app the hosting
aspect as well as pointing domains so
I'll walk through both fairly quickly
today the first thing is is just
deploying the app so it happens in a few
very quick steps so first just connect
your github I've already connected mind
when you do connect it it lets you
configure whichever account you'd like
to and within accounts or in repos if
you want so I'll just hop over to my
github and select a repo that has an app
that I built recently so I'll select
that repo and then as soon as you do
that that's that's the code that I want
deploy right and then over on this third
step up is where you can set your build
settings and click deploy it already
reads the package JSON fills in the
build command and publish directory for
you so that's what it did right here and
then ambition you can set Advanced
Settings if you have environment
variables with your deployment or also
docker images the document aspect is
something that is not usually even
available in other kind of modern web
development tools even without the
centralized aspects because we use dock
images in the backend to build the repo
when we play it on top before we deploy
it onto ipfs we actually exposed as
endpoints so you can specify any dock
image
or any type of configuration you might
have depending on the framework for the
backend or language etc that you might
use in this case I don't have any crazy
specific thing and a lot of the
frameworks already supported
out-of-the-box with kind of generic
docker images that we have there's more
documentation and tech dots as well to
talk about like common framework to
deploy in which tech Doc's use so let me
just click deploy and that's really it
three quick steps and the it's already
the point so here is where you can just
monitor how that the point is going you
see the logs of the deployment flow
I think this reap this site in
particular will take around two to three
minutes to deploy so I can hop over to
say I just deployed sorted recently to
show the logs so yeah this is one that's
already deployed I'll go into the
deployment specific page and here we are
so what it's basically doing is it's
pulling your files from github down in
the repo I'm using docker images to
build it if you specify that docker
image we will use that one in particular
going through the standard yarn and PM
build process and then once it's done we
upload the deployed files to ipfs return
back hash create a terminal sub domain
to then point to that hash and from
there you can visit your site and I'd
give us three loads pretty performant I
mean very performant because and this is
a site that well not to get myself a
shout out but the crypto art newsletter
that I've been working on but
essentially the reason why it's for
perform on the site right now is we do
it we do a few things we are running on
our own notes we also are using
additional service providers to pend
kenyatta temporal they might be on the
call as well I think I saw Matt on here
and so Felix additional redundancy but
we upload the files the same gate
that we request through that we point
the domain to your request will request
the the files from the domain and that
is like creates a very low propagation
time for us and then we also as soon as
it's done deploying we make a request
through that domain to immediately put
those files and take cache the cache so
that's going into is a CDM and we we are
using on public EFS at the moment it is
like just a CDN provider like a one that
you would use on a front-end web site
content delivery I have today although
we are very excited about what we are
working on and for a future release
where we will have our own IP FS base
yet and it'll be completely ipfs based
and peer to peer and we think more
performant but a cost etc so we're
really excited about that one now
definitely a major release other than
other than the deployment process and
the site is on FS it has an SS officer
automatically given to it the next thing
you can really do is set up your domain
so on this one I added a cname I mean
subdomain really quickly but you can add
you can purchase domains you can also
add an external their existing subdomain
or root domain however you be pleased
and the and the process of pointing it
is if it is a simple cname record or a
name record depending on if it's a
subdomain so I can just like I can just
show you if you have so this one is
already taken if it's not I take in I
can just purchase it but if it is taken
you can just add it it'll say is this
yours
pretty simple flow I might already have
this one added on a different site I'll
just add this so then from there it'll
just go directly into your domain
settings and you can click on the check
dns configuration it gives you
instructions on how to point it from
your external DNS provider if you
purchase it through terminal would you
become the DNS provider in that case and
then it's automatically configured once
you configure the site we automatically
create a SSL cert for you we generate it
from let's encrypt and put it on that
site for you I think I have an example
of that as well right here this is the
actual site so my site the crypto art
digest site is hosted using terminal on
ipfs and yeah that's the lots of
episodes of its generating so that's
pretty much the main release we had out
now oh and yeah I mean we are working on
a bunch of really exciting stuff coming
forward I think that pretty much brings
us to the end of the demo if there's any
questions we're definitely happy to
answer any other might be Brad thank you
very much but if anyone has
questions we'd like to put it in the
chat or shout them out either way I saw
the DNS domains was was in there coming
soon yeah that is it is coming soon we
think we can make it a seamless
experience to connect nice so just just
because this is your domain registrar
right now we're using just GoDaddy
domain yeah but we but also with the NS
of course is an option and then coming
soon and we are looking at some other
like too centralized or decentralized
domain services out there that are
options just kind of waiting for the for
the user experience to be a bit bit
easier for that user
there's is there a way to like import my
site from an existing like if I've
already got a site somewhere on my
canvas and just be like this is the hash
can you start hosting this for me yeah
good point we got in that request from
the on boardings we are going to have it
like so we're gonna create a CLI so
right now you saw the github connector
github as a git provider we're we're
gonna pretty quickly add like git lab as
well as a CLI and the CLI will have
commands like more granular commands to
just upload a hash in particular and
deploy with a hash
you
okay so like oh says is DNS link setup
for default domains automatically do you
know what DNS link is yeah yeah yeah for
sure
Jenny was going to go on I think yeah
they are set up automatically and
they're updated every time the build
happens
nice any other questions
well if you don't have any questions on
here definitely feel free to reach out
to us
you can always DM us on our Twitter
account with responsive there and you
can also just you know me directly Brett
at ternovec oh and yeah we also have a
community slack channel if you want to
join um it's on our site community at
the top of channel echo and there's some
people in there that are working that
are trying out the product testing it
out I'm using it in production even and
giving a bunch of feedback and just kind
of sharing ideas about features and how
what to use it for so please please come
and join and/or happy answer more
questions there too
how was the experience setting up ssl
using let's encrypt specifically for
ipfs I said typically what it was I'm
like a server and you know what nginx
and all my stuff yeah so there's two
parts to that one is for the default
domain we're using CloudFlare as you
know as a proxy pretty much and we have
a wild-card search there and since it's
all subdomains on the default domain the
wild-card search works fine and all the
newly provision sites then reverse the
custom domains there we do have a proxy
we have a H a proxy that basically every
time you add a custom domain we verify
the domain and we generate the cert for
you we verify it because we get you to
point to it first so you go add a cname
or a record from your custom domain to
our proxy as soon as you do that we're
able to you assert bought to
automatically generates the certificate
using the acne challenge and then we can
pretty much using that as a buffer staff
there so that's the two ways we handle
it so so cool
nice all right any any other last-minute
questions I mean we have plenty of time
so
you
I think this is a really cool product
and excited get winter and winter
estimate it's kind of launched for it
the products slide now so people who
just request access we kind of are just
onboarding you had dozen or so a day so
we might publicly just open it up to
everyone in the next few weeks or in
conjunction with kind of the next
version which includes the CDM and some
other cool features so we're still
deciding on that but if anyone wants to
use it now they could reach out to us or
request early access on the website and
they'll be in in the next probably a few
days or a week max yeah usually we even
make people sit through the demo in
person but since everyone on here has
already seen it was just any direct
access this I know if you think
nice alright no sort of like a
tangential question around github
integration would it be possible to
grant like my understanding is that you
just read only access to specific people
not to the entire account would that be
possible
was that your experience or are the
limitations with ApS that you have
available yeah and they were you can
grant it to specific repos with an
account
alright well if there's no other
questions then I guess we're finished a
little bit early today but thank you
guys so much for coming on to tell us
about terminal it's really slick for
that and I hope those people start using
it to deploy their websites because it
looks good and it seems to worry well it
looks it looks like something that I
just go and and blow Monty is that and
be like this is where I want to put my
site and everything I expect is just
already there and ready and like you
know slick and and just works well like
it just it looks it looks really great
and I think that I hope that you guys
are successful with it
thank you so much thank you very much
yeah and our goal is to not just provide
this for hosting but to essentially
provide like a fire based type
experience with all the different things
you would need for your app or site but
leveraging like ipfs as the backbone
underneath to deliver those things such
as databases or a CDN or hosting or
server list function so a lot on the
roadmap definitely trying to align it
with the ipfs roadmap and so we're
excited to release some of those new
add-on features in the next few months
yeah and all that the experience has
been great for us we use the app for our
own products we use terminal hosts our
app and our Docs in our blog the blog
has a bunch of cool tutorials already
depending whatever framework you're
using we're adding a bunch more and I
use it for a personal set I had and the
experience has been great like the
automatic deployments is definitely a
nice feature where every time you push a
new you know new PR and you merge your
repo that it automatically deploys and
you can just see them right there and go
check out the new the new build so the
experience is definitely smooth would
would recommend checking out and I'd say
the last thing our goal isn't just to
just put the sites for different aspects
on ipfs we're really working towards
figuring out ways in which IP FS can
make your site or app faster or more
performant more secure and so those are
the super exciting things so it really
should be that hopefully in a few months
that hosting a site or an app using IP
FS would make it a lot faster or cheaper
than just using something like nullify
or a normal hosting so some work to do
but it seems like
it's possible so that's what we're
working towards nice what made you
choose I confess I would say we've been
in the web 3-space for a while and we're
working a lot on aetherium and and apps
and it just sort of started a rabbit
hole down like what is adapt and you
know does adapt require smart contracts
could it be adapted it doesn't have
smart contracts and really just thinking
about the web and how web 3 might
actually happen and what pieces of the
web like the web stack are going to need
to be distributed or descent rise in
order to make that happen and we kind of
just felt like ipfs was a very like good
backbone for a web 3 it doesn't have a
token which makes it very easy to
natively integrate into the web and we
think most of the services that people
do need for a web site or apps could be
built using IP FS as a backbone so we've
just been really impressed with the
progress and the idea of us community
and I felt that there wasn't enough
people building given how big of an
impact it could have on the web so we
decided we'd like to help make that
happen
nice alright and okay cool well that
just about wraps it up I guess for this
week and thank you everyone for coming
it's really nice of you guys to thank
you again and we'll see you next next
week I think we can just be talking to
I think gonna be talking to Microsoft
exciting times and so anyway see you
next week everyone thanks for coming bye
bye